welcome to crazy queries of the cosmos
all right all right enough why do
bottles of water have grooves
and one with soft drinks have five
rounded bumps on the bottom
what do handshakes mean and where do
they come from
and more answers to questions we all
keep googling for no
apparently good reason soft drink
bottles are made of pet polymer
which is strong and can hold a ton of
pressure the carbonated beverage inside
tends to swell
and a flat bottom would curve outwards
which wouldn't let the bottle stand on
its own
so five rounded bumps have been
carefully engineered to solve that
problem
water bottles are made of thinner
plastic the grooves
allow bottles to be pressed in a way
that they'll become useless and
unable to be refilled and resold that's
why it's recommended to squash the
bottle vertically to dispose of it
properly
[Music]
in 2016 a law was passed in france
forbidding supermarkets from wasting
food they either turn it into compost
feed the animals or send it to charities
the library of congress in the u.s
constantly receives requests for books
that don't even exist
that's because people see the books in
movies and think that they're real
marie curie was the first person to win
two nobel prizes
and one of two people to get them in two
separate fields
physics and chemistry
[Music]
there are thousands of news stories
published every day but on the 18th of
april
1930 absolutely nothing happened
bbc announced that there had been no
news that day
and they played piano music instead what
a great idea
[Music]
continents never stop moving right now
we're headed towards a new super
continent formation
but it won't happen soon they're moving
slower than your nails are growing
avocados don't ripen while they're on
trees
so farmers store them on branches for up
to eight months
[Music]
salvador dali avoided paying the tabs by
drawing on the checks
his guess was that restaurants would
never cash out such a treasured art
piece
and he was correct
the difference between jam and jelly is
that in jelly
the fruit comes as fruit juice with
smooth texture
while in jam the fruit is in the form of
pulp
contrary to popular belief the great
wall of china can't be seen from space
with an
unaided eye
handshakes come from the ancient times
of swordfights
warriors wore their sword on their left
side and they'd use their right hand to
draw it out
shaking hands became an indication that
one had
peaceful intentions and wouldn't use
their right arm to draw out the sword
pasta was considered a dish for the
wealthy during the renaissance
and a single strand of spaghetti is
called a spaghetto
true even though pandas love munching on
bamboo
their closest relatives are carnivores
during their evolution they stopped
eating meat
and their meat-liking receptors became
non-functional
when giant pandas are born they're as
big as small rats just some panda facts
while buzzing around bees use the sun as
a fixed reference point
and despite their tiny brain they can do
minimal math and
understand the concept of zero
according to fossil records beavers used
to roam the earth during the ice age
and they were bigger than bears those
were called giant beavers
really and the last time they shared a
common ancestor with the beavers we know
today
was 24 million years ago
the infamous baked beans aren't actually
baked
they're stewed they're called baked
beans because
centuries ago they were dried out soaked
overnight
simmered and then slowly baked in a
ceramic bean pot
hummingbirds are the only birds that fly
backwards
they have no sense of smell and they
weigh less than a sheet of paper
fish also get coughs but not like humans
it happens when their ventilation cycle
gets interrupted
like when they want to clean their gills
contrary to popular belief babies can't
breathe and swallow at the same time
but they're born with an advanced
instinct that allows them to alternate
swallowing and breathing so fast that it
looks like they can do it
though as they grow older that ability
disappears
people who lack iron in their system can
crave things that aren't food
these could be ice clay or chalk
the anonymous artist banksy once sold a
1.4 million dollar painting
that self-destructed as soon as it was
sold during an auction
the painting was shredded to pieces and
the collector still wanted it
when plato first came out it was
intended to be a wallpaper
cleaner it wasn't until a year later
that it came out as a toy
there's an official league for rock
paper scissors where people from all
over the world can participate in
tournaments and win prizes
there's a hummingbird species that's so
small people mistake it for an insect
it's as big as a golf ball and it's the
smallest bird on the planet
statistics say you're more likely to win
an olympic gold medal without any
training
than winning the lottery jackpot your
chances of winning the medal are 1 in 9
million
and 1 in 14 million for the lottery and
you're right
none of those are good odds
the average waiter takes 22 000 steps
per day
and the average nurse takes 16 000
someone who works in an office
walks only 7 000 steps a day
only 15 percent of the sahara desert
consists of sand
the other 85 is a luxurious oasis
nah it's made of stone and gravel
if your body could survive in lava you
wouldn't be able to sink into it
lava is incredibly dense and if you fell
into a volcano
you would float on its surface looking
rather like a charred marshmallow
the word orange refers to the fruit not
the color
the shade wasn't mentioned until people
started talking about the juicy fruit in
the 1300s
or aren't you glad to know that yes
that's an old joke 95
of a jellyfish's body consists of water
and the rest is solid matter
that means if you leave a jellyfish in
the sun it will evaporate
water bottles have an expiration date
not because the water goes bad
but because that's the time the plastic
will begin to disintegrate into the
water
london taxi drivers must take a
knowledge test
in which they have to memorize sixty
thousand streets
and one hundred thousand places within
six miles around sharing cross
it takes them two to four years to get
their license
[Music]
the hubble space telescope consumes a
little more power per minute than the
average
kettle researchers have found that your
intestine replaces its lining every five
to seven days
i have nothing to add to that
the acid in your stomach is so strong
that it can dissolve
metal and you have enough iron in your
body to produce a large nail
so aren't you something
earthquakes used to be measured on the
richter scale
but now the magnitude scale is more
accurate because it calculates the
tremor
based on the energy it disperses
anything below the 2.0
or even 3.0 magnitude will likely go
unnoticed it took more than 10 years to
complete the international space station
and 40 flights to assemble it it was
completed in 2011
though new changes are added all the
time
astronauts at the international space
station spend two hours
every day working out to prevent muscle
loss
since they're floating in zero gravity
the rest of the day
it's believed that picasso produced more
than fifty thousand unique pieces of
artwork
around a thousand of them were believed
to be stolen and
art detectives are on the hunt for them
the velociraptors that were around more
than 70 million years ago
were just a little bigger than turkeys
engineers were going to call the like
button an awesome button
and instead of the famous thumbs up they
discussed giving it a star
or plus sign shape
human fingers are so sensitive that if
the tip of your finger was the size of
the earth
you'd feel the difference between a car
and a house
a hummingbird's heart beats 1260 times
per minute
you're heart for comparison can only
beat around a hundred times a minute or
so
now i wouldn't even try to compete with
that
there are more atoms in a shot glass of
water than glasses of water in the
earth's oceans
and finally there's this neptune was
first drawn by galileo
in 1613 when he mistook it for a star
in 1846 it was discovered through
calculations by three
independent scientists that led to wide
dispute on who
discovered it first since it couldn't be
seen without a telescope
good luck